# Interactive assembly visualisation

This repository contains the zip file submission made for the Part IB Group Project of the University of Cambridge Computer Science Tripos.

## About the group project assignment

In January-March of the second year undergraduate Computer Science Tripos, students are allocated to teams of six and required to complete
a 7-week software project, following the requirements of a client. This was an ongoing process with four compulsory client meetings spread
throughout the period, a final submission of the code in a zip file, and a report after the project's completion.

## About our project

I was allocated to Team November: Interactive Assembly Visualisation. Before the project began, the team was given the following design brief.  
*Performance engineers often work with assembly code, whether it's generated by a compiler or written by hand. Yet, such code is hard to read -- and therefore hard to write. Writing such code becomes easier if the presentation of assembly code is visually enhanced: masking overly low-level details (like instruction addresses), annotating control flow, syntax highlighting, and even lifting the representation of the computation. In this project, you will integrate such techniques into xDSL, a general-purpose MLIR-compatible compiler framework written in Python with representations of assembly instructions, to help with compiler debugging as well as debugging handwritten assembly. This will involve: parsing the assembly, converting it into MLIR-structured IR, as well as creating a visualisation of useful information present in the assembly. We invite you to take inspiration from anywidget, textual, or any other related tool you may find. When completed, this project will make interactive assembly code reasoning easily accessible and fun.*

Our final product was a command line tool that displays x86 code with a control flow graph, identifying branches, jumps and loops. All of our programming was done in Python.
Here is a YouTube video narrated by two of our team members that showcase our final product: https://youtu.be/t3-79vKBHj0?si=mZNn_Qgb6Jqj_-xp

## This repository

I wish to clarify that only a small part of the zipped folder contains our original work. Our client wanted the project to be integrated
with the existing xDSL library, thus requiring the team to fork https://github.com/xdslproject/xdsl
and add to xdsl/tools. The zip file in this repository was made with our own written README with instructions that specifically
demo our work in visualising x86.





